Network Working Group                                             Master Laplace
Internet-Draft                                                  Laplace&Me, Inc.
Expires: December 31, 2023                                         June 30, 2023

                       Flakkari Protocol Version 1 (FPv1)
                       draft-laplace-flakkari-protocol-01

Abstract

   This document describes the Flakkari Protocol Version 1 (FPv1), a
   communication protocol designed for [provide a brief description of
   the protocol's purpose].

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF). Note that other groups may also distribute working
   documents as Internet-Drafts. The list of current Internet-Drafts is
   at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time. It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on Month Day, Year.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) [year] IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors. All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document. Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document.

Table of Contents

   1. Introduction ...................................................  3
   2. Protocol Overview ..............................................  3
   3. Message Format .................................................  4
      3.1. Header Structure ..........................................  4
      3.2. FlakkariEventId Enum ......................................  5
      3.3. Priority Enum .............................................  6
      3.4. ApiVersion Enum ...........................................  6
   4. Message Semantics ..............................................  7
      4.1. System Messages ...........................................  7
      4.2. Network Messages ..........................................  8
      4.3. Game Messages .............................................  9
      4.4. User Messages ............................................. 10
   5. Security Considerations ........................................ 11
   6. IANA Considerations ............................................ 12
   7. References ..................................................... 12
      7.1. Normative References ...................................... 12
      7.2. Informative References .................................... 13
   Author's Address .................................................. 13

1. Introduction

   The Flakkari Protocol Version 1 (FPv1) is a communication protocol designed
   to facilitate efficient and reliable data exchange between clients and
   servers in a networked environment. The primary purpose of FPv1 is to
   support real-time interactions for multiplayer gaming applications.
   By defining a structured and extensible format for messages, FPv1 enables
   seamless communication between game clients and servers, allowing for the
   synchronization of game states, events, and user actions.

1.1 Background

   In the realm of online multiplayer gaming, timely and accurate communication
   between clients and servers is crucial to maintaining a coherent and
   immersive gaming experience. The Flakkari Protocol was conceived to address
   the specific challenges posed by the dynamic and interactive nature of
   multiplayer games. By providing a standardized framework for data exchange,
   FPv1 aims to optimize network efficiency, reduce latency, and ensure a
   consistent gaming experience across diverse platforms.

1.2 Objectives

   The key objectives of FPv1 include:

   - Efficiency: FPv1 is designed to minimize the overhead associated with
         communication, ensuring that the protocol itself does not introduce
         unnecessary delays or resource consumption.

   - Scalability: The protocol accommodates a scalable number of clients and
         servers, supporting the demands of both small-scale and large-scale
         multiplayer gaming environments.

   - Extensibility: FPv1 allows for the easy addition of new features and
         message types, ensuring compatibility with evolving game requirements
         without necessitating a complete protocol overhaul.

   - Reliability: The protocol incorporates mechanisms to detect and recover
         from communication errors, enhancing the reliability of data exchange
         between clients and servers.

1.3 Intended Use

   FPv1 is specifically tailored for use in multiplayer gaming scenarios where
   real-time communication is essential. Its intended use cases include, but are
   not limited to:

   - Online Games: FPv1 serves as the communication backbone for online
         multiplayer games, facilitating the exchange of player actions, game
         events, and state updates.

   - Virtual Worlds: Virtual worlds and simulations that involve multiple
         participants benefit from FPv1's ability to synchronize diverse
         elements and maintain a coherent virtual environment.

   - Interactive Applications: Any application that requires low-latency,
         bidirectional communication between distributed entities can leverage
         FPv1 for efficient data exchange.

1.4 Audience

   The primary audience for this protocol specification includes game
   developers, network engineers, and other stakeholders involved in the design
   and implementation of multiplayer gaming systems. Familiarity with network
   protocols, messaging formats, and game development concepts is assumed for
   readers of this document.

   In subsequent sections, this document will delve into the detailed structure
   of FPv1 messages, the semantics associated with different message types, and
   considerations for security and extensibility.

2. Protocol Overview

   The Flakkari Protocol Version 1 (FPv1) is designed as a communication
   protocol with a primary focus on facilitating efficient and structured
   communication between client and server entities. The protocol is intended to
   support various applications, particularly those within the context of a
   multiplayer online game environment.

2.1. High-Level Structure

   The protocol adopts a modular and extensible structure to accommodate diverse
   communication requirements. It comprises distinct components to handle
   different types of messages, allowing for flexibility in addressing the needs
   of system-level, network-related, game-specific, and user-centric
   interactions.

2.1.1. Message Types

   - System Messages: Responsible for handling fundamental system-level
         operations such as connection establishment, termination, and heartbeat
         functionalities.

   - Network Messages: Addressing networking aspects, including entity spawning,
         destruction, movement, and sound playback.

   - Game Messages: Tailored to support game-related functionalities, such as
         entity actions (e.g., shooting) and other game-specific events.

   - User Messages: Handling user inputs and interactions, including player
         movement, actions, and custom user-defined data.

2.1.2. Header Structure

   The protocol employs a well-defined header structure that encapsulates
   essential information for each message. This includes priority levels, API
   version identification, command IDs for message type categorization, content
   length for payload size, sequence numbers for message ordering, and checksums
   for data integrity verification.

2.2. Goals

   - Efficiency: FPv1 aims to optimize data transfer by minimizing overhead and
         efficiently encoding information, ensuring swift communication between
         clients and servers.

   - Scalability: The protocol is designed to scale with the complexity and
         requirements of multiplayer applications, allowing for seamless
         integration into various gaming environments.

   - Flexibility: Supporting extensibility, FPv1 accommodates future protocol
         enhancements or customizations to adapt to evolving application needs.

   - Reliability: Emphasizing reliability, the protocol includes mechanisms for
         message sequencing, error checking, and acknowledgment to guarantee
         the integrity of data transmission.

   - Security: While not explicitly detailed in this overview, FPv1 incorporates
         considerations for secure communication, and developers are encouraged
         to implement additional security measures based on specific deployment
         scenarios.

2.3. Use Cases

   - Multiplayer Gaming: FPv1 is well-suited for real-time multiplayer gaming
         applications, providing a structured framework for communication
         between players and the game server.

   - IoT Applications: The protocol's modular design allows for adaptation
         to Internet of Things (IoT) scenarios where efficient, low-latency
         communication is essential.

   - Custom Applications: FPv1's flexibility supports custom applications with
         unique communication requirements, offering a versatile solution for
         developers.

   In summary, the Flakkari Protocol Version 1 is a versatile and efficient
   communication protocol designed to support the dynamic requirements of
   multiplayer applications, with a focus on scalability, flexibility, and
   reliability.

3. Message Format

   The Flakkari Protocol messages consist of a header followed by the message
   content. The header contains essential information about the message, such
   as priority, API version, command ID, content length, sequence number, and
   checksum.

3.1 Header Structure

   The header structure is defined by the Flakkari::Protocol::Header struct
   and consists of the following fields:

      _priority: 4 bits - Represents the priority of the message in the queue
            (LOW, MEDIUM, HIGH, CRITICAL).
      _apiVersion: 4 bits - Indicates the version of the Flakkari Protocol (V_1)
      _commandId: 8 bits - Identifies the command to be executed.
      _contentLength: 16 bits - Specifies the length of the content in the
            message.
      _sequenceNumber: 64 bits (commented out) - Reserved for determining the
            sequence of the message.
      _checksum: 16 bits (commented out) - Reserved for determining the checksum
            of the message.

3.2 FlakkariEventId Enum

   The FlakkariEventId enum class defines various event IDs, categorizing
   messages into different types. These IDs help in identifying the purpose of
   the message. For example:

      REQ_CONNECT: Client to Server - Request to connect to the server.
      REP_CONNECT: Server to Client - Acknowledgment of connection acceptance.
      REQ_DISCONNECT: Client to Server - Request to disconnect from the server.
      REP_DISCONNECT: Server to Client - Acknowledgment of disconnection.

   (And similarly for other event IDs.)

3.3 Priority Enum

   The Priority enum class defines different priority levels for messages:

      LOW: Low priority.
      MEDIUM: Medium priority.
      HIGH: High priority.
      CRITICAL: Critical priority.

   These priorities determine the order in which messages are processed.

3.4 ApiVersion Enum

   The ApiVersion enum class indicates the version of the Flakkari Protocol.
   In this case, there's only one version defined:

      V_1: Version 1 of the protocol.

   Example:

   An example of a message header for a message with a command ID of 1 and a
   content length of 0:

   '''cpp

   Flakkari::Protocol::Header header(
      Flakkari::Protocol::Priority::LOW,
      Flakkari::Protocol::ApiVersion::V_1,
      1, 0
   );

   '''

   This example creates a header with low priority, API version 1, command ID 1,
   and content length 0.

   Conclusion:

   This section defines the fundamental structure of Flakkari Protocol messages,
   providing a clear understanding of how headers are composed and the meaning
   behind specific fields and enums.

4. Message Semantics

   [Describe the semantics of different types of messages in the protocol.]

   4.1. System Messages

      [Explain the purpose and semantics of system messages.]

   4.2. Network Messages

      [Describe the meaning and use of network-related messages.]

   4.3. Game Messages

      [Provide information about messages related to the game layer.]

   4.4. User Messages

      [Explain the semantics of user-related messages.]

4. Message Semantics

   The Flakkari Protocol Version 1 (FPv1) defines various types of messages,
   each serving a distinct purpose within the communication framework. The
   semantics of these messages are categorized into different types, including
   System Messages, Network Messages, Game Messages, and User Messages.

4.1. System Messages

   System messages in FPv1 serve fundamental functions related to the
   establishment and management of connections between clients and servers.
   These messages facilitate the control and coordination of the communication
   process. Key system messages include:

      REQ_CONNECT (Request Connect): Sent by a client to initiate a connection
            with the server.
      REP_CONNECT (Response Connect): Sent by the server to acknowledge and
            accept a client's connection request.
      REQ_DISCONNECT (Request Disconnect): Initiated by a client to request
            disconnection from the server.
      REP_DISCONNECT (Response Disconnect): Sent by the server to confirm and
            acknowledge a client's disconnection request.
      REQ_HEARTBEAT (Request Heartbeat): Used by clients to send keep-alive
            signals to the server, ensuring the connection remains active.
      REP_HEARTBEAT (Response Heartbeat): Sent by the server in response to a
            client's heartbeat, confirming the connection status.

4.2. Network Messages

   Network messages in FPv1 are designed to handle communication aspects related
   to the network layer. These messages enable the transmission of data across
   the network efficiently. Key network messages include:

      REQ_ENTITY_SPAWN (Request Entity Spawn): Clients use this message to
            request the spawning of a game entity on the server.
      REP_ENTITY_SPAWN (Response Entity Spawn): Servers respond to a client's
            entity spawn request, confirming the successful spawning of the
            entity.
      REQ_SOUND_PLAY (Request Sound Play): Clients send this message to request
            the server to play a specific sound.
      REP_SOUND_PLAY (Response Sound Play): Servers acknowledge the sound play
            request by confirming the successful playback.
      REQ_ENTITY_DESTROY (Request Entity Destroy): Clients request the server to
            destroy a specific game entity.
      REP_ENTITY_DESTROY (Response Entity Destroy): Servers confirm the
            successful destruction of the specified entity.

4.3. Game Messages

   Game messages in FPv1 are dedicated to handling interactions and updates
   within the game layer. These messages ensure synchronization and
   communication of game-specific events. Key game messages include:

      REQ_ENTITY_MOVED (Request Entity Moved): Clients send this message to
            inform the server about the movement of a game entity.
      REP_ENTITY_MOVED (Response Entity Moved): Servers acknowledge the movement
            of the specified entity.
      REQ_ETITY_STOP (Request Entity Stopped): Clients send this message to
            notify the server that a game entity has stopped moving.
      REP_ENTITY_STOP (Response Entity Stopped): Servers confirm the successful
            stopping of the specified entity.
      REQ_ENTITY_SHOOT (Request Entity Shoot): Clients use this message to
            notify the server about a game entity shooting.
      REP_ENTITY_SHOOT (Response Entity Shoot): Servers confirm the shooting
            even and its outcome.

4.4. User Messages

   User messages in FPv1 pertain to communication involving user-specific
   actions and inputs within the application. These messages facilitate the
   interaction between users and the game or application. Key user messages
   include:

      PlayerPacket: A detailed structure containing information about the
            player's position, velocity, actions (e.g., movement, jumping,
            shooting), and additional data (e.g., sound and texture information)
            This message is used to synchronize player state between clients
            and servers.

   These message semantics provide a structured understanding of the different
   types of messages in the Flakkari Protocol Version 1 and their intended
   purposes within the communication framework.

5. Security Considerations

   [Discuss security considerations related to the protocol.]

6. IANA Considerations (#https://www.iana.org/protocols)


   This section documents the actions IANA has taken or needs to take
   in response to the specifications outlined in this document. These
   actions may include assignments of values, creation of registries,
   or updates to existing registries.

6.1. Protocol Registration

   The Flakkari Protocol Version 1 (FPv1) requires the allocation of a
   unique protocol identifier by IANA. This identifier is to be used in
   the "Protocol Numbers" registry [RFC1700] under the "Internet
   Protocol Numbers" section.

   IANA is requested to assign the following value for Flakkari
   Protocol Version 1:

   Protocol Name: Flakkari Protocol Version 1
   Protocol Number: [TBD] (To Be Determined by IANA)

   Future assignments for additional versions of the Flakkari Protocol
   will follow a similar format, with the version number appended to
   the protocol name.

6.2. FlakkariEventId Enum Registration

   The FlakkariEventId enum requires registration with IANA for
   interoperability. IANA is requested to create and maintain a new
   registry named "FlakkariEventId Enum" under the "Protocol Numbers"
   section.

   The initial values for the FlakkariEventId enum are as follows:

   Value  Description
   -----  -----------
   0      REQ_CONNECT
   1      REP_CONNECT
   2      REQ_DISCONNECT
   3      REP_DISCONNECT
   ...    ...

   Future assignments for additional FlakkariEventId values will follow
   the same format.

7. References

   7.1. Normative References

      [List any normative references to other documents.]

   7.2. Informative References

      [List any informative references that provide additional context.]

Author's Address

   Master Laplace
   Laplace&Me, Inc.
   Email: master.laplace@me.com
